shelters
Ginny hogs and I've heard of guinea pigs
so I looks mighty big for a guinea pig
so they're closer to pigs than rodents
yeah yeah they're black pigs okay uh
said they're from they were from the
guinea coast of Africa
okay cool pigs they don't root very much
they eat grass if they're really good
foraging around our pigs are free-range
there's a there's a pig eating my boot
while I'm filming this but notice how
still the camera is I'm just that good
totally free range and and they haven't
learned that the sound of your voice
means candy um you know if I called them
oh okay there put the barn probably
trying to get into a house Oh baby
better eh okay well hey this is yeah
I've never seen anything quite like this
what are you what is this now you you so
there was a big mound of dirt another
project and we needed a place for the
pigs to sleep
see there's nothing snow and stuff that
gets cold so we had seen videos about
set filters Earth's animal shelters into
the side of the hill we didn't exactly
have hill this is a very not ideal but
it's working um it was 18 degrees the
other morning and we put a thermometer
in there just cuz we're new curious and
sad 38 with two pigs in there pigs make
their own heat but you can definitely
felt that it was warmer to gain 20
degrees 20 degrees is pretty significant
it's a lot warmer than 18 yeah 38 is
comfortable let me try to keep it um put
spent cow hay in there and they poop all
along this corner in this wall and a
couple days to get in and clean it out
put that on the garden alright so how
did you make this it looks like there's
wood and rocks yeah there's uh I do
that's what that's what I want
well the important thing is I didn't see
me pig poop I'm sure there's didn't
really feel the need to film pig poop
and then okay the thing I think is
important is that you got you guys see
the wood and then next to the wood
there's these rocks yeah this holds up
this cuz we kind of had to mean dig a
hole into this hill and this mound and
then yeah the rocks
I think act is a nice thermal mass as a
south fish okay you when you use both
hands to signify South it gets harder to
tell that south oh okay alright alright
now I get it now I get it
south so it's a south-facing shelter
it's solar powered yeah yeah yeah it's
nice right in front of here on warm
what kind of wood did you use this is
kind o so it's this probably isn't good
this might last if you can keep it dry
and it looks like you've got your
plastic keeping the wood pretty dry cept
maybe the front a little bit fifteen
years ten years oh okay
yeah this is this is just for me next
winter maybe hopefully not this was just
needed something for this winter so now
if you're if your pigs are warmer um I
don't suppose you measure your feed
close not to notice any change in feed
needs
well we ferment their food all their
food gets fermented for about 24 hours
and her cakes um because they're
free-ranging they go in fines they go
and find stuff all day long um they get
about we I mean I have waited use an 8
ounce yogurt cup or sour cream cup and
they get one or two of those a day and
milk not we have the cows I think an
important thing is I don't smell
anything
I mean you know people say you know hey
neighbor you're not allowed to raise
pigs cuz pigs stink yeah if yours if you
can smell your animal poop it's a sign
of nutrients that you're losing you
shouldn't be able to smell have you ever
smelled any pig poop out here at all oh
yeah it gets smelly you know we don't
it's it's tiny and so it only takes a
couple of days and so the feces build-up
yeah just stick your head in there in
the morning you can
okay today it's time to clean out the
poop and put in the fresh sea I've never
heard of pigs pooping in their shelters
before we keep them in here until we're
done with the morning milking Oh so then
they've got no place else to go
but in a shelter one of the really
amazing benefits of having a nice warm
place for your animals to sleep
is that a eat less if they're spending
fewer calories keeping themselves warm
and that translates into fewer inputs
and more overhead costs for us if you
like this sort of thing come on out to
the forms of permease com we talked
about raising hogs homesteading and
permaculture all the time
it's kind of like having big weird dogs